by show of hands who here loves Caesar
salad me I love it i order it all the
time when i go out to restaurants and do
you know sometimes it's great and
sometimes it's not so great today i'm
making a version that's a little bit
lower fat and it's a chicken caesar
which is a perennial favorite i think
first what you do is you marinate your
chicken and you make the base for your
dressing so it's sort of a two for one
one and a half cups of buttermilk with
two tablespoons of lemon juice the
chicken can marinate for as little as 15
minutes but you can make this ahead of
time if you want to up to a day two
tablespoons of lemon juice one clove of
garlic
today I'm using a garlic press I like
the small size that you get with the
garlic press here classic Caesar salads
are actually made by mashing garlic with
anchovies and then whisking in egg yolk
and olive oil I'm replacing my egg yolk
with mayonnaise and I'm leaving out the
anchovy but please feel free to add it
in if you want to a quarter cup of
grated Parmesan cheese this is cheese is
going to go into the marinade but it's
also going into the dressing salt and
pepper and then reserve a half a cup of
this mixture to make your dressing later
the rest of it you want for over three
skinless boneless chicken breasts about
six to eight ounces each seal it up
refrigerate it if you're gonna marinate
this longer than 15 minutes but if you
wanted to do it for as little as 15 you
totally cook for the croutons
today I'm using a multigrain bread it's
a little unorthodox I guess but it's a
little bit healthier you certainly could
use regular bread if you wanted to like
a chewy rustic bread would work as well
brush two slices of multigrain bread
with olive oil have your broiler
preheating these croutons are going to
be broiled a little bit of salt and then
just broil them until they're golden
brown and then you'll cut them up
afterwards when you're ready to make
your salad take your chicken out of the
marinade letting the excess drip back
into the bag and then place it on a
rimmed baking sheet that's been lined
with foil
so let the excess liquid drip off but
some of its going to end up on the pan
and that will get a little extra
caramelized / burnt in the oven which is
why you want to put it on this rimmed
baking sheet with the foil have your
broiler preheating and then cook it
until your chicken is cooked through to
take about 13 to 15 minutes while you're
waiting you can make your dressing this
is 1/4 cup of light mayonnaise you can
use regular mayonnaise if you want to to
that add your reserved buttermilk
marinade that's why there was the cheese
in there Caesar salad always has cheese
delicious we're not using all that much
but you can be feel free to add more if
you want to Caesar salad always has
romaine today I'm combining my romaine
lettuce with some radicchio though for a
little bit of color 2 heads of romaine
cut into pieces and a half a head
radicchio that's also been shredded you
can toss everything together in the bowl
that you made your dressing romaine
radicchio I told you it wasn't a
conventional Caesar salad I will be
kidding
sort of a cross between Caesar salad and
a ranch the buttermilk instead of the
mayonnaise base set that aside for a sec
cut off your chicken gotten just a
little bit of golden brown and those
extra brown spots or broiled cheese -
adds extra deliciousness these are
cooked just until they're cooked through
so the chicken isn't dry chicken can go
into the salad with your radicchio
chicken goes in you want to toss
everything together I find that also my
salads with the dressings makes for a
much better eating experience then
drizzling over the top one last thing
the croutons cup the bread into whatever
size croutons you like say I don't know
about an inch
toss your croutons into your salad very
hearty fantastic
serve it up in a nice big bowl it's a
hard here kind of healthier hide a
lighter version of chicken Caesar salad
that I'm sure everybody is gonna love
hi guys thanks for watching this video
be sure to click here if you want to
subscribe and click over here if you
want to continue watching more great
videos like this